Baritone Matthew Carey has sung with opera companies throughout the United States as well as Germany, where he was lead baritone at the Stadts Oper Lübeck for four years. His leading roles include Guglielmo in *Cosi fan tutte*, Wolfram in *Tannhäuser,* Valentin in *Faust*, Figaro in *Barbiere di Seviglia*, Taddeo in *La Cenerentola,* Alfonso in *La Favorita*, Heerufer in *Lohengrin ,*Lescaut in *Manon*, Marcello and Colline in *La Bohème*, Ford in *Falstaff*, Silvio in *I Pagliacci* and Don Giovanni. Matt has performed with the symphony orchestras of Hamburg, Kotka (Finland), Santa Barbara, the NDR Orchester of Bremen, the Delta Symphony Orchestra and the Arkansas Symphony Orchestra. In concert, he has performed *Carmina Burana, Messiah, The Creation, Elijah,* the *Requiems of Mozart, Brahms and Fauré, Five Mystical Songs* (Vaughan-Williams)*, Old American Songs* (Copland) and *Drum Taps* (Richard Pearson Thomas). Recent appearances on the theater stage include engagements with The Link Theatre Company as Henry in *The Fantasticks* and as a member of the New Rochelle Ensemble in *Ragtime.* 

 Matt has been a member of the voice faculty at Arkansas State University since 1997. In addition to applied voice, he also teaches Lyric Diction for Singers, Vocal Pedagogy and Song Literature. He has been the music director and conductor for the ASU Theater Department's Musical and has co-hosted the College of Fine Arts radio program "Spotlight on the Arts" on public radio NPR affiliate KASU 91.9 FM.

Matt is a prolific recitalist, performing all styles of song literature, and specializing in songs cycles. Most recently, he toured Schubert’s *Die Winterreise* in Alabama. He has conducted Vocal Master Classes throughout Arkansas, as well as Louisiana and Alabama. Along with his other voice colleagues,  he conducts a weekly Studio Class open to all voice students. He is a regular adjudicator at State and Regional NATS competitions, where his students frequently reach the Finals, as well as other local and regional competitions. Matt continues to perform in opera, recital and concert both at A-State and around the country. 

For the last 12 years, Matt has been a licensed Speech-Language Pathologist, specializing in Singing Voice Therapy- the habilitation of the injured singing voice. In the Fall of 2014, in collaboration with A-State Assistant Professor of Communication Disorders Shanon Brantley, Matt conducted a 30 day pilot study examining the effectiveness of two different types of vocal exercises. More recently, he has been presenting *The Singer’s Preventative Maintenance Program*  at universities in Arkansas, Tennessee, Louisiana, Alabama and New Jersey.
